CollabCanvas

Our application is divided into three pages, all of which require the user to be logged in to access them. 
The index page, which is loaded first, has the global canvas which all users can contribute to. 
From there users can navigate to a profile page which displays user information and the user’s current contributions to the global canvas. 
From the user’s profile page, the user can choose to either navigate back to the global canvas or to a private canvas.

The global canvas allows users to insert pixels of various colors, up to a maximum of 20 per hour, to a canvas that is visible to all users. 
There is a color picker so that users can easily pick the color pixel they wish to insert,
and there is a download button that will save the current version of the canvas to the user’s computer as a png.

The private canvas functions a bit differently than the global canvas. 
Since it is per user it allows the user to draw lines instead of limiting them to one pixel at a time and also does not limit how much they can draw. 
The private canvas also has a download button which saves it as a png much like the one for the global canvas.

Front End (HTML, JS)
 
index.html
The website homepage

Features:
  The global canvas
    This is the global canvas of CollabCanvas, which displays the current state of the collaborative image. 
    It can be drawn to after selecting a color from the color picker
    
  Color picker
    Used for selecting the color to be drawn on the global canvas
    
  Download image
    This button will download a .png of the current version of the global canvas
    
  Profile
    By clicking on the user in the top right corner, a drop down menu will appear that gives a choice between going to the profile page and logging out. 
    Logging out will bring the user back to the login page.

profile.html

Features:
  User information
    Displays the user’s username, name, and email address.
    There is a button that allows the user to edit their password.
    
  User’s contributions to the global canvas
    Below the user information section the site displays an image that shows all of the pixels the user has inserted into the global canvas.
    The image does not display the additions of any other users.
    
  Navigation
    At the top of the profile page the user is presented with two buttons. 
    One allows them to return to the global canvas to continue editing or just to look at it. The other allows them to move to their private canvas.

private.html
The private canvas page

Features:
  The private canvas
    This is a tool that lets users create their own drawings independent from the global canvas. 
    This canvas functions similarly to the global canvas on the homepage and is interactable, 
    however since it is a private canvas there are no restrictions placed on how much the user is allowed to modify it.
    Another difference is that the private canvas allows the user to draw whole lines instead of just one pixel at a time.
    
  Color Picker
    A number of buttons allow the user to change the color of their input to the private canvas. 
    The format is a bit different compared to the global canvas.
    
  Download image
    Just like the global canvas. 
    The user can click a button to save the image on their private canvas as a png.
    
  Profile
    The same as the global canvas page. 
    The user can click on the button in the top right corner to show a drop down list which allows them to view their profile or log out of the page.

Back End (Python, SQL)

The back end of this web application communicates with 2 database tables: a users table and a submissions table

Users table
This database table holds all information regarding user profiles. The structure is as follows:

  userID (int)
    The ID of the user (unique value, starting from 0 and incrementing by 1 for every user inserted)
    
  email (string)
    The user’s email address. Used as a username and a key for accessing user data
    
  firstName (string)
    The user’s first name
    
  lastName (string)
    The user’s last name
    
  pixelCount (int)
    The number of pixels this user has left to add to the global canvas

Submissions table
This database holds each pixel that has been entered into the global canvas. The structure is as follows:

  submissionID (int)
    The ID of the pixel (unique value, starting from 0 and incrementing by 1 for every pixel inserted)
    
  userID (int)
    This is a reference to the userID of the user that submitted this pixel entry. 
    It is linked to the userID field in the users table, so a user with a matching userID must exist before inserting a pixel
    
  xCoord (int)
    The x coordinate of the pixel on the global canvas
    
  yCoord (int)
    The y coordinate of the pixel on the global canvas
    
  rValue (unsigned int, < 256)
    The red value of the pixel
    
  gValue (unsigned int, < 256)
    The green value of the pixel
    
  bValue (unsigned int, < 256)
    The blue value of the pixel

Miscellaneous Features

Checkpointing:
A checkpointing system has been implemented to improve overall website performance. 
Every 500 submissions to the global canvas, a screenshot is taken of the canvas and added to blob storage. 
This way, instead of loading every pixel from history every time the global canvas is loaded, 
the canvas can start from one of these checkpoints and build off of it with the remaining pixel entries.
